------------------------------------------oVirt-----------------------------------------

Introduction :    oVirt is free, open-source virtualization management platform. 
                  It was founded by Red Hat as a community project on which Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization is based.
                  oVirt manages virtual machines, storage and virtualized networks
                  oVirt is a virtualization platform with an easy-to-use web interface.
                  oVirt is powered by the Open Source you know - KVM on Linux.
   
Infrastructure :      oVirt consists of two basic components, oVirt engine and oVirt node.
                       
oVirt engine is running on top of WildFly (former JBoss) application server. 
Frontend can be accessed through webadmin portal for administration, or a 
user portal with privileges and features that can be fine tuned

oVirt node is a server running RHEL, CentOS, Fedora or experimentally Debian, with KVM hypervisor enabled and a VDSM 
(Virtual Desktop and Server Manager) daemon written in Python. Management 
of resources initiated from webadmin portal are sent through the engine backend that issues appropriate calls to the VDSM daemon
       
System Requirements : 
  oVirt engine can be installed on a standalone server, or can be hosted on a cluster of nodes themselves inside a 
  virtual machine (self-hosted engine). Self-hosted engine can be manually installed or automatically deployed via virtual appliance.[2]

       
Services :  

Virtual machine management enables selecting high availability priority, live migration, live snapshots, cloning virtual machines 
from snapshots, creating virtual machine templates, using cloud-init for automated configuration during provisioning and 
deployment of virtual machines. Supported guest operating systems include GNU/Linux, Microsoft Windows and FreeBSD.

Management features for compute resources include CPU pinning, defining NUMA topology, 
enabling kernel same-page merging, memory over-provisioning, HA VM reservation etc.



